The date is 3-21 and I finished the ztm terraform course. I came into this course having a brief understanding of different aws services from the ztm cloud practitioner course. The basic use case for terraform is to create an infrastructure as code that is declaritive and stateful. 

It uses a state file to keep track of the changes between the desired infra (code) and the actual infra that's published. It works by defining a provider (aws, gcp, azure) and connecting to it using terraform and the user's access information. You are then able to create or destroy infrastructure on the cloud using code and the commands from Terraform. 

I learned using variables, conditionally creating resources, ways to dynamically fetch certain data needed to create the resources, and use modules to abstract the repeated code and even use the community modules in order to get things up and running quicker. Specifically the resources we mostly created were in 2 categories: network and server infra. For the network part: virtual private cloud, subnets, internet gateway and route tables. For the server part: ssh key generation and usage, security groups, ec2 instances.

I now have a broader understanding of the software development lifecycle from creating the application with a front end and most likely back end, to the actual computer resources that will be created to run that application. Using terraform I can now get the soruce code of the project and spin up an instance to run that code. The benefits of infra as code is the re-usibility, source control, and predictibility that it gives to the developer. The code is the desired state and terraform performs the underlying api calls and actions needed to get to that state.
